README.md, before:

# Utility and documentation for SNAP data distribution

## Setting up CKAN for development

Once the Puppet provisioning has finished, log onto the server that was configured and create an administrative user:

```bash
sudo su - ckan
. /usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/activate
cd /usr/lib/ckan/default/src/ckan
paster sysadmin add admin -c /etc/ckan/default/production.ini
```

### Running CKAN in a development mode

Instead of serving CKAN through Apache's `mod_wsgi`, it's better to run with the development server because it allows enhanced debug modes to be activated.

 - disable Apache
 - disable supervisord

To launch the development server:

 * `source /usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/activate`
 * `paster serve /etc/ckan/default/production.ini`

### Running the harvester

#### Create an organization

Before you can create a harvester instance, you need to have at least one organization defined.  Log into CKAN's web interface with the admin user you created earlier, then navigate to organizations by entering the URL `https://site.url/organization` and create one named 'snap'.

#### Configure the harvester

As a logged in admin user, go to `localhost:5000/harvest` and configure a new harvest job:

 * URL: https://athena.snap.uaf.edu/geonetwork/srv/en/csw?request=GetCapabilities&service=CSW
 * Source Type: SNAP GeoNetwork Instance

Other options can be left as default.

To launch the harvesters for development, open a new terminal window and `vagrant ssh` into the instance.  Then:

 * `sudo su -`
 * `source /usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/activate`
 * `/usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/paster --plugin=ckanext-harvest harvester     gather_consumer --config=/etc/ckan/default/production.ini &`
 * `/usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/paster --plugin=ckanext-harvest harvester     fetch_consumer --config=/etc/ckan/default/production.ini`

When you make changes to the harvester plugin, you'll need to restart the fetch stage.  Ensuring that `supervisord` isn't running is important, or you'll end up with an in-memory version of the harvester instead of the one you're working on.

To actually perform harvesting/reharvesting, do this:

 * Go to `http://localhost:5000/harvest`
 * Pick the SNAP Harvester
 * Click "Admin"
 * Click "Clear" then "Reharvest".  This is the best way to ensure that stale/old jobs aren't getting resumed.

## Post-install configuration on production server

After completing the install of the base CKAN and our extensions, there's some additional steps that need to be performed.

### Configuration in the admin menu

Log in as an administrator, go to the admin tools and choose the "Congfig" tab.  Set this section up this way:

 * Site Tag Logo: `snap_data_art.png`

# Configuration of data download directories

Placeholder *TODO* for the moment.  Need to add instructions on adding `h5ai` and how to configure it and edit template as required.

# Restoring from database backup
Restart the Postgresql service to clear all active connections
`sudo /etc/init.d/postgresql-9.3 restart`

Drop ckan_default, datastore_default and postgres databases as postgres user
```
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/dropdb ckan_default
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/dropdb datastore_default
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/dropdb postgres 
```

Recreate the databases to allow for restoring from a text file
```
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/createdb postgres
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/createdb ckan_default
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/createdb datastore_default
```

Restore from the database dump

```
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/psql < database-dump.sql
```

You must reindex to have things show up properly through Solr on the Web UI
```
$ sudo su - ckan
ckan $ source default/bin/activate
(default) ckan $ paster --plugin=ckan search-index rebuild -c /etc/ckan/default/production.ini
```

Now you can start the CKAN instance again
```
$ sudo su - ckan
ckan $ source default/bin/activate
(default) ckan $ paster serve /etc/ckan/default/production.ini
```

Commit message:

add instructions on wiring up shared folders

README.md, after:

# Utility and documentation for SNAP data distribution

## Setting up CKAN for development

Once the Puppet provisioning has finished, log onto the server that was configured and create an administrative user:

```bash
sudo su - ckan
. /usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/activate
cd /usr/lib/ckan/default/src/ckan
paster sysadmin add admin -c /etc/ckan/default/production.ini
```

### Wiring up git repos

If you want to set up shared folders with your VM/host for development, follow these (rough) steps:

 1. On your local machine, navigate to the directory where you cloned the `ckan-puppet-centos` repo, then `vagrant up && vagrant ssh`, then (on the VM) from `/usr/lib/ckan/default/`, remove the `ckanext-snap_theme` and `ckanext-snap_harvester` directories.
 1. Log out of the VM, then `git clone` both repositories into *this* directory (same place as the Vagrantfile).
 1. Uncomment the [relevant sections](https://github.com/ua-snap/ckan-puppet-centos/blob/master/Vagrantfile#L19) of the Vagrantfile, then `vagrant reload`.
 1. `vagrant ssh` back into the VM, then navigate to each repository and run `python setup.py develop` to "install" the module.

### Running CKAN in a development mode

Instead of serving CKAN through Apache's `mod_wsgi`, it's better to run with the development server because it allows enhanced debug modes to be activated.

 - disable Apache
 - disable supervisord

To launch the development server:

 * `source /usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/activate`
 * `paster serve /etc/ckan/default/production.ini`

### Running the harvester

#### Create an organization

Before you can create a harvester instance, you need to have at least one organization defined.  Log into CKAN's web interface with the admin user you created earlier, then navigate to organizations by entering the URL `https://site.url/organization` and create one named 'snap'.

#### Configure the harvester

As a logged in admin user, go to `localhost:5000/harvest` and configure a new harvest job:

 * URL: https://athena.snap.uaf.edu/geonetwork/srv/en/csw?request=GetCapabilities&service=CSW
 * Source Type: SNAP GeoNetwork Instance

Other options can be left as default.

To launch the harvesters for development, open a new terminal window and `vagrant ssh` into the instance.  Then:

 * `sudo su -`
 * `source /usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/activate`
 * `/usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/paster --plugin=ckanext-harvest harvester     gather_consumer --config=/etc/ckan/default/production.ini &`
 * `/usr/lib/ckan/default/bin/paster --plugin=ckanext-harvest harvester     fetch_consumer --config=/etc/ckan/default/production.ini`

When you make changes to the harvester plugin, you'll need to restart the fetch stage.  Ensuring that `supervisord` isn't running is important, or you'll end up with an in-memory version of the harvester instead of the one you're working on.

To actually perform harvesting/reharvesting, do this:

 * Go to `http://localhost:5000/harvest`
 * Pick the SNAP Harvester
 * Click "Admin"
 * Click "Clear" then "Reharvest".  This is the best way to ensure that stale/old jobs aren't getting resumed.

## Post-install configuration on production server

After completing the install of the base CKAN and our extensions, there's some additional steps that need to be performed.

### Configuration in the admin menu

Log in as an administrator, go to the admin tools and choose the "Congfig" tab.  Set this section up this way:

 * Site Tag Logo: `snap_data_art.png`

# Configuration of data download directories

Placeholder *TODO* for the moment.  Need to add instructions on adding `h5ai` and how to configure it and edit template as required.

# Restoring from database backup
Restart the Postgresql service to clear all active connections
`sudo /etc/init.d/postgresql-9.3 restart`

Drop ckan_default, datastore_default and postgres databases as postgres user
```
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/dropdb ckan_default
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/dropdb datastore_default
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/dropdb postgres 
```

Recreate the databases to allow for restoring from a text file
```
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/createdb postgres
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/createdb ckan_default
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/createdb datastore_default
```

Restore from the database dump

```
postgres $ /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin/psql < database-dump.sql
```

You must reindex to have things show up properly through Solr on the Web UI
```
$ sudo su - ckan
ckan $ source default/bin/activate
(default) ckan $ paster --plugin=ckan search-index rebuild -c /etc/ckan/default/production.ini
```

Now you can start the CKAN instance again
```
$ sudo su - ckan
ckan $ source default/bin/activate
(default) ckan $ paster serve /etc/ckan/default/production.ini
```
